source/code/README.md, before:

# Agent-Based System for Emergency Services in Disconnected Environments

The Emergency Management System is designed to handle emergency situations in disconnected or degraded environments. It consists of two sub-systems: an agent-based system and a centralized system. This repository contains the system components and the testing process.

## Table of Contents

- [Agent-Based System for Emergency Services in Disconnected Environments](#agent-based-system-for-emergency-services-in-disconnected-environments)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [System Components](#system-components)
    - [Agent-based system](#agent-based-system)
    - [Centralized system](#centralized-system)
  - [Testing Process](#testing-process)
    - [Test Setup and Scenarios](#test-setup-and-scenarios)
    - [Scenario Table](#scenario-table)
    - [Steps](#steps)
    - [Running test cases](#running-test-cases)
      - [1. Command: node scenarioTests.js](#1-command-node-scenariotestsjs)
      - [2. Result](#2-result)
      - [3. Analysis](#3-analysis)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Running the Tests](#running-the-tests)
  - [Modifying Test Scenarios](#modifying-test-scenarios)

## System Components

### Agent-based system

- `agent.js`: Receives messages based on agentID.
- `firetruck.js`: Represents a fire truck agent in the system.
- `hq.js`: Represents the headquarters agent in the system.
- `app.js`: Facilitates RabbitMQ connections between agents.

### Centralized system

- Similar structure to the agent-based system, but with a centralized approach for communication.
- `firetruck.js`: Represents a fire truck agent in the system.
- `hq.js`: Represents the headquarters agent in the system.
- `app.js`: Facilitates RabbitMQ connections between agents.

## Testing Process

### Test Setup and Scenarios

- `scenarioTests.js`: Contains the main testing script for running different emergency scenarios on both agent-based and centralized systems.
- `scenarios.json`: Contains a list of emergency scenarios, including the number of incidents, locations, and severity levels.
- `simulationRunner.js`: Runs the simulation for each scenario and collects performance metrics such as response time, resource utilization, and failure recovery time.

### Scenario Table

| Scenario       | Description                                       | Agent Failure | Server Failure | Network Latency | Resource Availability | Workload |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | --------------- | -------------------- | -------- |
| Small fire     | Fire spotted near downtown                        | false         | false          | 100             | 100                  | 1        |
| Large fire     | Large fire near the park                          | true          | false          | 300             | 80                   | 2        |
| Earthquake     | Earthquake detected, multiple incidents reported | false         | true           | 500             |  60                   | 5        |
| Flood          | Flood warning near the river                      | false         | true           | 200             | 100                  | 3        |
| Gas Leak       | Gas leak reported in residential area             | true          | false          | 400             | 70                   | 4        |
| Chemical Spill | Chemical spill at the industrial facility         | true          | true           | 600             | 50                   | 6        |


These scenarios can be customized based on the specific needs and the emergency response team.


### Steps

1. Define test scenarios in the `scenarios.json` file.
2. Implement the `runTestForAgentSystem()` and `runTestForCentralizedSystem()` functions in `scenarioTests.js`. These functions will use the existing functions from `test.js` to send messages to agents or fire trucks based on the input scenario.
3. Run the test scenarios using the `scenarioTests.js` script. This script will loop through the scenarios defined in `scenarios.json` and execute the tests for both agent-based and centralized systems.
4. Collect performance metrics for each scenario and system using the `simulationRunner.js` script. Metrics include response time, resource utilization, and failure recovery time.
5. Analyze the collected data and compare the performance of the agent-based system with the centralized system. Draw conclusions about the effectiveness of each system based on the metrics.

### Running test cases

#### 1. Command: node scenarioTests.js

#### 2. Result

Output example:

Running test for scenario 1: Small fire

Running test for scenario 2: Large fire

[Agent-based] Skipping agent 5678 due to failure.

Running test for scenario 3: Earthquake

[Agent-based] Skipping test due to server failure.

[Centralized] Skipping test due to server failure.

Running test for scenario 4: Flood

[Agent-based] Skipping test due to server failure.

[Centralized] Skipping test due to server failure.

Running test for scenario 5: Gas Leak

[Agent-based] Skipping agent 8462 due to failure.

Running test for scenario 6: Chemical Spill

[Agent-based] Skipping agent 9512 due to failure.

[Centralized] Skipping test due to server failure.

centralise based: Sent message "Fire spotted near downtown" to fire truck

Time elapsed: 0.5277500152587891 milliseconds

Agent based" Sent message "Fire spotted near downtown" to agent 1234

Time elapsed: 0.05645895004272461 milliseconds

centralise based: Sent message "Large fire near the park" to fire truck

Time elapsed: 0.28254103660583496 milliseconds

centralise based: Sent message "Gas leak reported in residential area" to fire truck

Time elapsed: 0.33116698265075684 milliseconds"

#### 3. Analysis

The scenarioTests.js script is running the tests and comparing the agent-based and centralized systems for each scenario in the scenarios.json file. The results are printed to the console, indicating whether a test was skipped due to agent failure, server failure, or if it was executed successfully. Additionally, the script shows the time elapsed for sending messages in both systems.

## Requirements

- Node.js
- RabbitMQ

## Installation

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install RabbitMQ server: [https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html](https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html)
3. Install Node.js: [https://nodejs.org/en/download/](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
4. Navigate to the project directory and run `npm install`.

## Running the Tests

1. Start the RabbitMQ server.
2. Run `node scenarioTests.js` to execute the test scenarios.

## Modifying Test Scenarios

You can modify the test scenarios by editing the `scenarios.json` file. This file contains an array of scenarios, each containing information such as the scenario name, messages, network latency, agent or server failures, and resource availability.

For example:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Small fire",
  "messages": [
    {
      "type": "agent",
      "content": "Fire spotted near downtown",
      "agentId": "1234"
    },
    {
      "type": "fireTruck",
      "content": "Fire spotted near downtown"
    }
  ],
  "agentFailure": false,
  "serverFailure": false,
  "networkLatency": 100,
  "resourceAvailability": 100,
  "workload": 1
}

Commit message:

unit testing for app.js agent, update README including Architecture Overview

source/code/README.md, after:

# Agent-Based System for Emergency Services in Disconnected Environments

The Emergency Management System is designed to handle emergency situations in disconnected or degraded environments. It consists of two sub-systems: an agent-based system and a centralized system. This repository contains the system components and the testing process.

## Table of Contents

- [Agent-Based System for Emergency Services in Disconnected Environments](#agent-based-system-for-emergency-services-in-disconnected-environments)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [System Components](#system-components)
    - [Agent-based system](#agent-based-system)
    - [Centralized system](#centralized-system)
  - [Architecture Overview](#architecture-overview)
    - [Communication Flow](#communication-flow)
    - [Separation of Concerns](#separation-of-concerns)
  - [Testing Process](#testing-process)
    - [Test Setup and Scenarios](#test-setup-and-scenarios)
    - [Scenario Table](#scenario-table)
    - [Steps](#steps)
    - [Running test cases](#running-test-cases)
      - [1. Command: node scenarioTests.js](#1-command-node-scenariotestsjs)
      - [2. Result](#2-result)
      - [3. Analysis](#3-analysis)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Running the Tests](#running-the-tests)
  - [Modifying Test Scenarios](#modifying-test-scenarios)

## System Components

### Agent-based system

- `agent.js`: Receives messages based on agentID.
- `firetruck.js`: Represents a fire truck agent in the system.
- `hq.js`: Represents the headquarters agent in the system.
- `app.js`: Facilitates RabbitMQ connections between agents.

### Centralized system

- Similar structure to the agent-based system, but with a centralized approach for communication.
- `firetruck.js`: Represents a fire truck agent in the system.
- `hq.js`: Represents the headquarters agent in the system.
- `app.js`: Facilitates RabbitMQ connections between agents.

## Architecture Overview

This application consists of the following components:

- Client (Web Browser or API client)
- Express Server (API)
- RabbitMQ Server (Message Broker)

### Communication Flow

The communication flow between the components is as follows:

1. **Client -> Express Server**: The client sends an HTTP request (GET or POST) to the Express Server.
2. **Express Server -> RabbitMQ Server**: Based on the received HTTP request, the Express Server sends or receives messages from the RabbitMQ server using the appropriate queue or exchange.
3. **RabbitMQ Server -> Other Components (Firetruck, Ambulance, Police, etc.)**: RabbitMQ is responsible for passing messages between different components in your application. It ensures that messages are routed to the correct recipients and handles message persistence and delivery guarantees.

### Separation of Concerns

The separation of concerns is evident in this setup:

- The Express Server is only responsible for handling incoming and outgoing HTTP requests.
- The RabbitMQ Server is in charge of message passing and coordination among the components of your application.

This allows each component to focus on its specific role, making your application more modular and maintainable.

## Testing Process

### Test Setup and Scenarios

- `scenarioTests.js`: Contains the main testing script for running different emergency scenarios on both agent-based and centralized systems.
- `scenarios.json`: Contains a list of emergency scenarios, including the number of incidents, locations, and severity levels.
- `simulationRunner.js`: Runs the simulation for each scenario and collects performance metrics such as response time, resource utilization, and failure recovery time.

### Scenario Table

| Scenario       | Description                                       | Agent Failure | Server Failure | Network Latency | Resource Availability | Workload |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | --------------- | -------------------- | -------- |
| Small fire     | Fire spotted near downtown                        | false         | false          | 100             | 100                  | 1        |
| Large fire     | Large fire near the park                          | true          | false          | 300             | 80                   | 2        |
| Earthquake     | Earthquake detected, multiple incidents reported | false         | true           | 500             |  60                   | 5        |
| Flood          | Flood warning near the river                      | false         | true           | 200             | 100                  | 3        |
| Gas Leak       | Gas leak reported in residential area             | true          | false          | 400             | 70                   | 4        |
| Chemical Spill | Chemical spill at the industrial facility         | true          | true           | 600             | 50                   | 6        |


These scenarios can be customized based on the specific needs and the emergency response team.


### Steps

1. Define test scenarios in the `scenarios.json` file.
2. Implement the `runTestForAgentSystem()` and `runTestForCentralizedSystem()` functions in `scenarioTests.js`. These functions will use the existing functions from `test.js` to send messages to agents or fire trucks based on the input scenario.
3. Run the test scenarios using the `scenarioTests.js` script. This script will loop through the scenarios defined in `scenarios.json` and execute the tests for both agent-based and centralized systems.
4. Collect performance metrics for each scenario and system using the `simulationRunner.js` script. Metrics include response time, resource utilization, and failure recovery time.
5. Analyze the collected data and compare the performance of the agent-based system with the centralized system. Draw conclusions about the effectiveness of each system based on the metrics.

### Running test cases

#### 1. Command: node scenarioTests.js

#### 2. Result

Output example:

Running test for scenario 1: Small fire

Running test for scenario 2: Large fire

[Agent-based] Skipping agent 5678 due to failure.

Running test for scenario 3: Earthquake

[Agent-based] Skipping test due to server failure.

[Centralized] Skipping test due to server failure.

Running test for scenario 4: Flood

[Agent-based] Skipping test due to server failure.

[Centralized] Skipping test due to server failure.

Running test for scenario 5: Gas Leak

[Agent-based] Skipping agent 8462 due to failure.

Running test for scenario 6: Chemical Spill

[Agent-based] Skipping agent 9512 due to failure.

[Centralized] Skipping test due to server failure.

centralise based: Sent message "Fire spotted near downtown" to fire truck

Time elapsed: 0.5277500152587891 milliseconds

Agent based" Sent message "Fire spotted near downtown" to agent 1234

Time elapsed: 0.05645895004272461 milliseconds

centralise based: Sent message "Large fire near the park" to fire truck

Time elapsed: 0.28254103660583496 milliseconds

centralise based: Sent message "Gas leak reported in residential area" to fire truck

Time elapsed: 0.33116698265075684 milliseconds"

#### 3. Analysis

The scenarioTests.js script is running the tests and comparing the agent-based and centralized systems for each scenario in the scenarios.json file. The results are printed to the console, indicating whether a test was skipped due to agent failure, server failure, or if it was executed successfully. Additionally, the script shows the time elapsed for sending messages in both systems.

## Requirements

- Node.js
- RabbitMQ

## Installation

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install RabbitMQ server: [https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html](https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html)
3. Install Node.js: [https://nodejs.org/en/download/](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
4. Navigate to the project directory and run `npm install`.

## Running the Tests

1. Start the RabbitMQ server.
2. Run `node scenarioTests.js` to execute the test scenarios.

## Modifying Test Scenarios

You can modify the test scenarios by editing the `scenarios.json` file. This file contains an array of scenarios, each containing information such as the scenario name, messages, network latency, agent or server failures, and resource availability.

For example:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Small fire",
  "messages": [
    {
      "type": "agent",
      "content": "Fire spotted near downtown",
      "agentId": "1234"
    },
    {
      "type": "fireTruck",
      "content": "Fire spotted near downtown"
    }
  ],
  "agentFailure": false,
  "serverFailure": false,
  "networkLatency": 100,
  "resourceAvailability": 100,
  "workload": 1
}
